okay we're going to deal with knife
skills I have to the most important
things about life skills are a you have
a knife you feel really comfortable with
most of your chopping jobs are going to
be done with a big big chef's knife like
this and be that the knife is sharp now
the most common way of sharpening a
knife is on a steel I'm quite good at
sharpening a knife so I'm just shot them
on a 45 degree angle equal amount of
times on each side
now the way to get to that is to start
off by holding your not holding your
steel down against the board and that's
just your life a 45 degree angle from
top to bottom and eventually when you're
comfortable with doing this you can
start sharpening your knife like a
professional so with your knife nice and
nice and sharp you're ready to chop now
I'm the common misconception is that
people chop up and down if you look at
any chef's shop you'll realize they used
one of two methods either they chop in a
rocking motion or they chop drawing the
knife back always with their hand which
isn't holding the knife held like a claw
with the knife pushed against the middle
part of their fingers and the bottom of
their fingers tucked in the hand is
never flat so show you we'll start with
some celery using the rocking motion and
holding the knife against our fingers
we're just going to slice some celery
this stage don't worry about speed when
you get confident chopping the speed
will come the other thing about holding
the celery like this it gives you an
indicator as to how thick or how thin
you want to slice the celery so if you
want big chunks move your fingers down
if you want to thin chunks and just
gradually move your fingers along
so there we have some nicely sliced
celery so here we've got a carrot to
chop our carrot to chop anything around
because it's round and it's going to
move around on the board you want to
stabilize it and you also want an edge
to work against so this is called
squaring off squaring off just means to
take the four sides of in this case your
carrot but anything that's round potato
piece of celeriac you just square it off
which gives you four sides to work
against here we're going to do some
batons so we want nice thick slices and
then we just pile the slices up holding
the knife against them and then just
slice down so what we have here are
batons of carrots perfect for crudité or
serving raw with dips in salads and from
our batons we get a uniform dice so you
simply hold the battens down and then
just cut again and from there you have a
dice of carrot so employing exactly the
same method we get two two cuts called
julienne and Broome was we just sliced a
carrot a lot thinner
and then we just pile those up from
there we hold our pile of carrot and
then slicing those just as we did with
baton very finely you get very finely
shredded carrot which is known as as you
Lian and then for a very fine chop you
do the same as we did with the dice you
chop that again and then you a very fine
chop known as a Brin was and a Brin was
for shredding cabbages lettuces you get
your cabbage and you need to call for it
first because it's got a call running
through the middle quarter your cabbage
then just cut the core out working
against the natural angle of the core
and sit it on its side to stabilize it
and then working against the leaves you
just cut down to shred your cabbage so
there we have a shred of cabbage and for
a very fine shred known as a chiffon art
this can also be done with lettuce
leaves or as I'm about to do here with
herb leaves like basil mint parsley
rather than finely chopping them get
yourself a pile of leaves you curl them
up like a cigar and then you just
finally shred using the rocking motion
there you have a very fine shred of
basil which is known as a chiffonade
and those are knife skills
you